In this section, we are going
to start learning about routing.
In the simple word, routing is communication
between computer in the different block subnet.
For example, let’s import a router, as
always, I use 2811, let’s also import 2 pc,
and then connecting this two pc to the router.
Remember that router is used to connecting
many pc in the different block subnet,
so this 2 pc must be in
the different block subnet.
Let’s say here we will configure
192.168.1.0/24 and then here 192.168.2.0/24.
Let’s change the name of the pc,
this is pc 2, and this is pc 1.
Let’s configure the ip the ip
address of the pc, start from pc 1,
desktop, ip configuration, the
ip address is 192.168.1.10,
Remember that if computer want to communicate with
others computer in the different block subnet,
so the computer will need a gateway, in this case
the gateway will be the ip address of router,
let’s say the ip address of
router will be 192.168.1.1,
and then the ip address that
connected to pc 2 is 192.168.2.1,
So for pc 1, the gateway will be 192.168.1.1,
and the gateway for pc 2 will be 192.168.2.1
Here for pc 1, the gateway is
192.168.1.1. Next for pc 2,
the ip address is 192.168.2.10,
and the gateway is 192.168.2.1.
Next, let’s configure the
ip address on the router.
No, enable, configure terminal, interface fa0/0,
no shutdown to enable the interface,
okay now the light is green, then ip address 192.168.1.1
255.255.255.0, okay we have done for fa0/0.
Next for fa0/1, int fa0/1, no shutdown, the
ip address is 192.168.2.1 255.255.255.0,
Okay now we have done configuring
the ip address in the router,
Now pc 1 and pc 2 should be able to communicate.
Let’s try, ping to pc 2, 192.168.2.10,
okay here we can see that the result is success.
So this is routing, which
is communication between pc
in the different block
subnet or different network.
How routing work? When pc 1 want to send packet
to pc 2, pc 1 will ask the gateway or the router,
"hey router, do you know where is 192.168.2.10?"
When the router recieve a question like
this, the router will check routing table,
To see the routing table, the
command is do show ip route.
Here we can see that we have 2 entry in
the routing table, which is 192.168.1.0/24
in fa0/0, and 192.168.2.0/24 in fa0/1.
Routing table is used to show which
network are able to reach by the router.
In this case router are able to reach
192.168.1.0/24 which is connected to fa0/0,
and also able to reach 192.168.2.0/24
which is connected to fa0/1.
So when pc 1 ping to pc 2, pc 1 will
ask the router where is 192.168.2.10,
the router know that 192.168.2.10 is in the
fa0/1, so the packet will forwarded to fa0/1.
When the packet arrive in pc2,
pc2 will send reply packet,
now the destination is 192.168.1.10 which is the
ip address of pc 1. So pc 2 will ask the router,
"hey router, do you know where is 192.168.1.10?"
the router will see the routing table,
and the router know that 192.168.1.10 is in the
fa0/0, so the packet will be forwarded to fa0/0.
That is how routing work.
Okay I think enough for this video, in the
next video, we are going to add 1 more router,
Thankyou for watching and
see you on the next video.